Welcome to Apache UIMA (Unstructured Information Management Architecture), a incubator project of the  Apache Software Foundation (ASF). 
Our goal is a thriving community of users and developers of UIMA frameworks, supporting components for analysing unstructured content such as text, audio and video.

What is UIMA?

Unstructured Information Management applications are software systems that analyze large volumes of unstructured information in order to discover knowledge that is relevant to an end user. 
UIMA is a framework and SDK for developing such applications. An example UIM application might ingest plain text and identify entities, such as persons, places, organizations; or relations, such as works-for or located-at. 
UIMA enables such an application to be decomposed into components, for example "language identification" -> "language specific segmentation" -> "sentence boundary detection" -> "entity detection (person/place names etc.)". 
Each component must implement interfaces defined by the framework and must provide self-describing metadata via XML descriptor files. The framework manages these components and the data flow between them. Components are written in Java or C++; the data that flows between components is designed for efficient mapping between these languages. 
UIMA additionally provides capabilities to wrap components as network services, and can scale to very large volumes by replicating processing pipelines over a cluster of networked nodes.

Apache UIMA is an Apache-licensed open source implementation of the UIMA specification (that specification is, in turn, being developed concurrently by a technical committee within OASIS , a standards organization). 
We invite and encourage you to participate in both the implementation and specification efforts.

UIMA is a component framework for analysing unstructured content such as text, audio and video. 
It comprises an SDK and tooling for composing and running analytic components written in Java and C++, with some support for Perl, Python and TCL. 


Apache UIMA mailing lists:

Users - uima-user@incubator.apache.org
Developers - uima-dev@incubator.apache.org
Commits - uima-commits@incubator.apache.org


Apache UIMA project committers:

Michael Baessler
Edward Epstein
Thilo Goetz
Adam Lally
Marshall Schor


Apache UIMA project Mentors:

Ken Coar (ASF member and Vice President)
Sam Ruby (ASF member)